# How parts of X.509 and PKI works
The architecture of PKI is that you have a root certificate that is trusted. The reason you trust this certificate is because it has been given to you in a way that you deem trustworthy. For instance by a company that you trust. These trusted certificates are then put in a Trusted Root Store in operating systems and browsers.

These certifates can also be cross-signed to further increase trust. This is done by CA1 signing a certificate of CA2. This is however not done directly on the root certificate but on a new certificate. For instance CA1 signs a new certificate that includes the public key of the root certificate of CA2. This will then become an alternative trust chain. This is for instance good for when you trust CA1 but not CA2. You will then not need to have the CA2 root in your trust store since you trust CA1 and CA2 is trusted by CA1.

X.509 is a standard for how certificates should be structured. It has a list over which fields should be included such as the date, the issuer, the public key, the type of algorithm used for the public key etc. That certificate including some additional information is then hashed (for instance with MD5) and then it is encrypted with the private key of the CA that signs the certificate. This encrypted hash is then included with the plaintext certificate. You can then take the public key of the CA from the certificate and validate that the encrypted hash is indeed signed by the CA which then in turn means that you trust it. Usually there is a chain that follows that goes all the way up to the certificate contained in the root store. Once you reach that certificate it is deemed trustworthy by for instance a browser.

In PKI there are also ways of deeming certificates invalid. Through the use of CRL (Certificate Revocation List) or OCSP (Online Certificate Status Protocol) you can blacklist certificates to which you have lost the private key or is forged. This does not however fully work since the attacker might restrict access to the CRL, or you are offline. 
